Hi! Welcome to The Silver Spleen.
My name is Leon Russell and this is my review of
THE WHITE HAIRED WITCH OF LUNAR KINGDOM.
Let's get the obvious out of the way first:
this is a version of the same story used for
THE BRIDE WITH WHITE HAIR.
Y'know, that movie with Brigitte Lin and Leslie Cheung.
It's easy to say that this new movie cannot
compare to the old one,
but it's also really not a very fair comparison to make.
THE BRIDE WITH WHITE HAIR
is an iconic movie that stars two iconic people
THE WHITE HAIRED WITCH OF LUNAR KINGDOM
is an interesting movie;
the version I saw was in 2-D, which is fine with me.
If you watch the trailer you'll see that there are
'3-D shots.'
Like this:
Ooohhh...
Aaaahhhhh...
I really don't care much for 3-D.
Or U2.
But I digress.
The plot isn't so much convoluted as it is illogical.
Well, maybe the plot isn't convoluted ,
but the people's behavior in the plot certainly is.
"No one will ever be allowed here!"
"No one!"
"No one, not ever! Never!"
"I just met these people, they seem nice,
can they come in?"
"Sure!"
"Hey, what are these people doing in here?"
What do you think they're doing?
The story doesn't hold up to any kind of logical scrutiny,
but then again neither do most of my life choices,
so I'm really not in a position to talk
This movie is another one in a growing list of films
that suffer from the same problem.
I usually use a cooking metaphor:
this movie has a lot of really good ingredients
and a lousy recipe.
Jacob Chung, the director,
has done some pretty good movies:
1992's CAGEMAN, an excellent film,
and  1997's INTIMATES, also a really good film.
But he also directed BATTLE OF WITS.
It's obvious that there was a budget for this film,
and that they spent some money on it.
A lot of it is really beautiful.
Now, when you have Tsui Hark on board
as an artistic consultant,
that's kinda to be expected.
But it's also obvious that some money
wasn't spent on this movie.
Some parts of the film are very obviously sporting
cut corners,
some of the sets look really, really nice,
and some others... don't.
The execution of the story,
both technically and narratively,
is often pretty good,
but there are times when it falls flat.
Huang Xiaoming and Fan Bingbing really don't
have any chemistry together.
I admit it may be hard to feel
romantic in a scene with a woman who looks like this:
Elijah Muhammad warned us about the blue-eyed devils!
It's also difficult when you're obviously not
doing what you want the audience to think you're doing:
Ummm... That's her navel.
Ahh, that's better... isn't it?
And I can't really say that Huang Xiaoming wasn't
trying very hard in this movie, because he was.
While filming
THE WHITE HAIRED WITCH OF LUNAR KINGDOM,
lead actor Huang Xiaoming was injured
when he slipped on this Tyvek coat.
His recovery was aided by an environment
as visually tasteless as the coat that injured him.
Most of the time Fan Bingbing was very good in her role.
It's a tough role to play, partially because
Brigitte Lin did it before,
and partially because of
the way she had to look and act for a lot of it.
but more often than not,
I felt like she was convincing and even engaging
Now, her action scenes were... obviously doubled,
but I felt that a lot of the dramatic work she did
just with her facial expressions was pretty admirable
It was a strange thing,
I noticed at least two different shots in the movie
that were just unflattering.
I don't mean that she didn't look pretty,
I mean she looked... weird.
The overall look of the white-haired witch
gets an update,
thanks in part to the magic of computers.
We see her hair turning white,
but to be honest it's pretty obviously CGI,
and her eyebrows stayed black so I guess it's not a...
total... transformation.
Her outfits also get an update,
and at times I think it was a little too modern.
She ended up sometimes looking like a
over-styled goth from some Japanese anime.
Then again,
maybe that was part of what made her a witch,
because Japan is evil!
Speaking of politics, this version of the story
apparently uses a lot of elements
that are in the original but were left out of
THE BRIDE WITH WHITE HAIR.
Many of these elements are political and reflect
the time in which the story is set.
They can also be seen as reflecting the present time,
too, and I'm not sure if they're supposed to or not.
There are things in there about
sacrificing oneself for the good of the country,
and about forgiving soldiers who killed a lot of people.
As many faults as I might find with this movie,
there were things I liked about it.
Right before the big romantic interlude
Huang Xiaoming drops a torch
so that he can embrace Fan Bingbing.
The torch hits the floor, y'know, out of frame,
but it makes this really loud... noise.
It seems weird but only because it's realistic;
if you drop the torch onto a stone floor
that's what it would sound like.
But it was kind of a disruption,
and that's really emblematic of my impressions about
THE WHITE HARIED WITCH OF LUNAR KINGDOM.
Too many contradictions, distractions, and...
missed opportunities.
I didn't dislike the movie,
but I wish I could like it more than I did.
This film opens at the end of the month in cinemas,
so if you have a chance to see it,
I would recommend that you do.
It's a lot of fun to look at,
and if nothing else, you can watch it
and then compare it to the older versions.
If you don't see it in the cinema,
wait until it comes out on home video and buy it.
When it's released to home video,
I'll update the description with a link
where you could do just that.
If you enjoyed this review please leave me a comment.
If you didn't enjoy the review, leave me a comment.
If you enjoy the reviews in general,
please subscribe to the channel.
Thank you for watching.